Duties
Summary
Marine Corps Community Services (MCCS) is looking for the best and brightest to join our Team! MCCS is a comprehensive program that supports and enhances the quality of life for Marines, their families, and others in the Marine Corps Community. We offer a team oriented environment comprised of military personnel, civilian employees, contractors and volunteers who keep the organization functioning smoothly and effectively.

Responsibilities
Performs one or more of the following duties: Loads and unloads heavy boxes, bulky supplies, and materials to and from trucks, dollies, etc. Moves heavy boxes or cartons by hand, hand-truck, or dolly. Checks merchandise against transfer and shipping documents for accuracy of count, type and destination. May price merchandise and operate a conveyor belt in a Warehouse/Distribution Center. Stacks, wraps and stores merchandise. Distributes merchandise/equipment on trucks for proper weight distribution for vehicle and load safety requirements. Moves, assembles and arranges heavy pieces of office and household furniture, equipment and appliances.

Performs minor maintenance and repair functions such as changing lightbulbs, minor painting, etc. Uses hand tools in performance of duties. Uses pry bars, sledgehammers, nail pullers and other tools to dismantle and remove construction material.

Opens crates, boxes using crowbars; cuts bands using shears; stacks boxes and cartons where directed. Picks up empty boxes/containers from work areas using hand cart. Moves to assigned area for disposal. Operates a compactor machine to crush empty boxes. Removes crushed boxes from machine and ties up for pickup by authorized vendor.

Washes and cleans interior/exterior of vehicles and performs minor vehicle maintenance functions (add fluids, change wiper blades, check tire pressure, etc.); digs, fills and tamps earth excavations. Levels ground using pick, shovel, tamper and rake. Shovels concrete and snow; cleans culverts and ditches; cuts trees and brush. Operates power lawn mowers and snow blowers. Performs functions such as retrieving shopping carts and emptying indoor/outdoor trash receptacles and litter pickup.

Performs general housekeeping functions including cleaning interior/exteriors windows. Maintains working areas in a clean and orderly manner. May perform light custodial duties/ general housekeeping duties such as cleaning or dusting fixtures.

Provides World Class Customer Service with an emphasis on courtesy. Assists customers and communicates positively in a friendly manner. Takes action to solve problems quickly. Alerts the higher-level supervisor, or proper point of contact for help when problems arise. Adheres to safety regulations and standards. Promptly reports any observed workplace hazards, and any injury, occupational illness, and/or property damage resulting from workplace mishaps to the immediate supervisor. Adheres to established standards of actively supporting the principles of the EEO program and prevention of sexual harassment.

Performs other related duties as required.

Requirements
Conditions of Employment
See Duties and Qualifications
EVALUATIONS:

Qualifications
Skills and Knowledge: Knowledge and skill sufficient to run lawnmowers, small gas/electric/battery powered equipment and use hand buffers, hatchets, saws, hand and other tools requiring the same level of knowledge and skill. Knowledge and skill sufficient to read signs, and follow simple oral and written instructions. Ability to work safely while moving light to heavy weight objects.

Responsibility: Works with specific oral and written instructions. Worker is called upon to use continual care, due to the nature of tools and equipment used, and the weight of objects handled. After receipt of instructions, worker may complete duties involving several distinct tasks or steps independently (e.g., washing and waxing a car; unloading supplies, moving them to specified locations and stacking them).

Physical Effort: Exerts moderately heavy physical effort in doing such tasks as occasionally lifting and carrying heavy objects; frequently lifting and carrying moderately heavy objects; and frequently pushing heavy furniture, loaded carts, etc. Lifts and carries objects up to 45 lbs independently and objects over 45 lbs. with assistance

Working Conditions: Work may be performed outdoors, occasionally in bad weather, involving exposure to extreme temperatures. Indoor working conditions may expose the worker to drafts, noise, dust and dirt and require standing on concrete floors for long periods. The tools, equipment, and heavy objects involved occasionally present chances of serious injury.

FOR POSITIONS AT GAS STATIONS ONLY: May be required to work both indoors and outside. May assist with regular fuel lane maintenance including the handling and cleanup of hazardous materials or substances. Must wear appropriate protective gear when required.

Education